---
title: CCNx Link Local Resources
abbrev: CCNx-LinkLocalResources
docname: draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxlinklocalresources
date: 2015-10-14
category: info

ipr: trust200902
area: General
workgroup: ICNRG Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    ins: I. Solis
    name: Ignacio Solis
    organization: PARC
    email: ignacio.solis@parc.com
 -
    ins: C. A. Wood
    name: Christopher A. Wood
    org: PARC
    email: christopher.wood@parc.com

normative:
    RFC2119

--- abstract

A CCNx link local name is one that only has meaning for a link between two
CCNx forwarders. These names can be used (in Interests) to get and set
link local resources about a link. A resource is a piece of information such
as the link MTU that is influences the behavior of the link used by two
or more peers. This document describes how the type and format of link-local names
and how they are used to manipulate link local resources.

--- middle

# Introduction

CCNx link local names are CCNx names given to Interest and Content Objects
that transfer resource information and perform resource operations between two
peers over a single link. A link can be both point-to-point and multicast. Thus,
at a minimum, a link local name must contain:

1. The name of the target resource.
2. The operation to be perform on a given resource.
3. A unique identifier of the sender of an Interest with a link local name.

##  Conventions and Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 {{RFC2119}}.

Peer: A CCNx forwarder.

Link: A connection between two peers.

Heartbeat: A keep-alive message that is sent between two peers to maintain the link.

# Link Local Name Format

The format of a link local name is given below.

~~~
lci:/local/link/<identifier>/<operation>/<resource>
~~~

# Link Local Resources

The following set of resources are available for any link:

|Resource Name|Resource Description|
|LINK|The local link|
|MTU|The link MTU|
|FragmentationStart|The starting fragmentation number|
|FragmentationSeqSize|The size of the sequence number field in a CCNx message|
|Heartbeat|A heartbeat message|
|HeartbeatFrequency|The frequency at which heartbeat messages are sent (in seconds)|

# Link Local Resource Operations

The following resource operations can be performed by clients (consumers).

- GET: Retrieve the (set of) values for the target resource.
- SET: Make a selection from a set of resource values.
- DELETE: Delete a given resource. Some resources are artificial
and cannot be deleted (e.g., compression algorithm), whereas others are
real and can be deleted (e.g., links).

# Sender Identifiers

The sender of an Interest with a link local name must include an unique
identifier. This identifier is a random 32-bit nonce generated by the consumer
when the link is created. For 1-n multicast links (e.g., WiFi), a forwarder
must take care to guarantee uniqueness among client (sender) identifiers.

# Security Considerations

All link local operations (e.g., GET, SET, DELETE) must only be performed if
the sending party is trusted. Link local operations will not be performed
upon request from untrusted and unauthenticated clients.

--- back
